LOCAL OFFICIALS SAID IT ALL CAME
TOO LATE SINCE KILLED HAVE
ALREADY BEEN BURIED.
BUT IN AN INTERVIEW WITH A
RUSSIAN NEWSPAPER, SYRIAN
PRESIDENT B ASHAR ASSAD DENIED
USING CHEMICAL WEAPONS.-FIRST H,
FIRST THEY LEVEL ACCUSATIONS AND
THEN COLLECT EVIDENCE.
BAN KI-MOON SPOKE IN SEOUL,
SOUTH KOREA.
>> CLEARLY, THIS WAS A MAJOR AND
TERRIBLE INCIDENT.
WE ALL TOLD THE FAMILIES OF THE
VICTIMS ATTRACT.
>> MEANWHILE U.S. NAVY FIGHTERS
AND JETS WERE AVAILABLE IN THE
REGION.
OVER THE WEEKEND, PRESIDENT
OBAMA MET WITH HIS MILITARY AND
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISORS TO
HASH OUT A RESPONSE.
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL
WEIGHED IN TODAY AS HE VISITED
VISITEDNESS INDONESIA.
>> IT WILL BE WITHIN THE
FRAMEWORK OF JUSTIFICATION.
>> JOHN McCAIN LED
CONGRESSIONAL SUPPORT OF RONS.
>> IF THE UNITED STATES DOESN'T
STAND BY AND TAKE SERIOUS
ACTION, SUCH AS LAUNCHING CRUISE
MISSILES, OUR CREDIBILITY IS
DIMINISHED MORE, IF THERE'S
ANYTHING LESS.
>> MORE CAUTIOUS IF THEIR TONE,
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR JACK REED ON
FACE THE NATION YESTERDAY.
>> WE CAN'T LET OURSELVES GET IN
A SITUATION WHERE THIS BECOMES A
SPRINGBOARD FOR A GENERAL
MILITARY OPERATIONS IN SYRIA TO
TRY TO CHANGE THE DYNAMIC.
THAT DYNAMIC IS GOING TO BE LONG
TERM VERY DIFFICULT AND
ULTIMATELY ESTABLISHED AND
SETTLED BY THE SYRIANS.
>>Woodruff: OVERSEAS, PRESSING
FOR ACTION.
>> ALL WITHIN OUR POWER TO ACT
WITHIN THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY TO BRING THOSE
RESPONISBLE TO JUSTICE.
>>Woodruff: IN JERUSALEM, THE
FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER SAYS
THERE'S BEEN NO DECISION ON
INTERNATIONAL INTERVENTION.
BUT:
>> IT IS UNTHINKABLE THAT ONCE
WHAT HAPPENED IS PROVEN AND
THOSE RESPONSIBLE IDENTIFIED
THERE WILL NOT BE A STRONG
RESPONSE BY THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
>> FROM MOSCOW ONE OF SYRIA'S
LARGEST ALLIES WARNED THE
INTERNATIONAL COMUCIALT
COMMUNITY TO TREAD CAREFULLY.
>> THE USE OF FORCE WITHOUT THE
APPROVAL OF THE UNITED NATIONS
SECURITY COUNCIL IS A VERY GRAVE
VIOLATION OF INTERNATIONAL LAW.
IF ANYBODY THINKS THAT BOMBING
AND DESTROYING THE SYRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE AND LEAVING THE
ARE BATTLE FIELD FOR THE
OPPONENT TO WIN THAT IS AN
ILLUSION.
>>Woodruff: MEANWHILE BRITAIN
U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL'S APPROVAL
A
>> Woodruff: TO DISCUSS WHAT
U.S. ACTIONS AGAINST SYRIA MIGHT
LOOK LIKE AND THE THE STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVES BEHIND THEM, I'M
JOINED BY RICHARD HAASS, A
FORMER TOP STATE DEPARTMENT AND
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
OFFICIAL.
HE'S NOW PRESIDENT OF THE
COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS.
AND JEFFREY WHITE, FORMERLY A
SENIOR ANALYST AT THE DEFENSE
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY AND
CURRENTLY A DEFENSE FELLOW AT
THE WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR
NEAR EAST POLICY. MILITARY RESP.
>> WELCOME BACK TO THE
NewsHOUR TO BOTH OF YOU.
RICHARD HAASS, IF THERE'S BEEN
UNDENIAL USE OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
AGAINST ASSAD AGAINST HIS OWN
PEOPLE, WHAT THEN IS THE
ADMINISTRATION WAITING FOR?
>> WELL, WHAT THEY'RE WAITING
FOR IS TO ESSENTIALLY PUT INTO
PLACE THE INTERNATIONAL
POLITICAL CONTEXT.
THAT MEANS THERE'S SOME KIND OF
A COALITION OF THE WILLING, A
NUMBER OF THE NATO ALLIES,
POSSIBLY NATO MORE FORMALLY, A
NUMBER OF ARAB STATES, AUSTRALIA
YOU HEARD FROM, AN INTERNATIONAL
COALITION ESSENTIALLY THAT WOULD
PARTICIPATE IN IT AND ALSO TALK
ABOUT WHAT TO DO IF THERE'S
VARIOUS FORMS OF RETALIATION
FROM SYRIA AND ANY OF THE
COUNTRIES BACKING SYRIA.
>>Brown: WHAT WOULD BE THE
PURPOSE RICHARD HAASS OF AN
ACTION THE ENERGIES WOULD TAKE?
>> TWOFOLD, PRINCIPALLY TO
UNDERSCORE, THAT CHEMICAL
DESTRUCTION INCLUDING BIOLOGICAL
AND NUCLEAR DID CANNOT BECOME
THE NORMAL WEAPON.
CANNOT IN ANY WAY BE DILUTED.
THIS FAR TRANSCENDS SYRIA.
SECONDLY, THE UNITED STATES MAY
COMMIT A SO-CALLED RED LINE.
THE PRESIDENT BASICALLY THREW
DOWN THE GAUNTLET OVER THE LAST
YEAR OR SO TELLING THE SYRIANS
THAT IF THEY WERE TO USE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS IT WOULD BE A
GAME CHANGER, WOULD CHANGE HIS
CALCULUS AND SO FORTH.
THE SIERRAIANS HAVE APPARENTLY
USED CHEMICAL WEAPONS TWICE,
LAST YEAR AND NOW.
SENDING AN ANNOUNCEMENT TO IRAN
WHERE THE UNITED STATES HAS PUT
DOWN A RED LINE.
THE WORD OF THE UNITED STATES IS
TO BE TAKEN SERIOUSLY.
SO THE STAKES AS LARGE AS THEY
ARE IN SYRIA JUDY ACTUALLY FAR
TRANSCEND WHAT IS GOING ON
THERE.
>>Woodruff: JEFF WHITE IF THERE
WERE TO BE AN ATTACK, WHAT WOULD
THE TARGETS BE?
WHAT WOULD BE WEAPONS BE?
>> IT DEPENDS.
IT COULD BE ANYTHING FROM A
SMALL TRYING WITH CRUISE
MISSILES ALONE UP TO A VERY
LARGE MILITARY OPERATION
INCLUDING AIRCRAFT.
IN ALL LIKELIHOOD WE'LL FOCUS
INITIALLY ON TARGETS THAT ARE
ASSOCIATED WITH THE CHEMICAL
WARFARE OPERATION WITH COMMAND
AND CONTROL OF SYRIAN FORCES-WIY
WERE INVOLVED IN FIRING THE
WEAPONS.
BUT IT COULD ALSO BE BROADER
THAN THAT AND TO INCLUDE ATTACKS
ON SURFACE TO SURFACE MISSILE
UNITS AND AIR FORCE UNITS.
>>Woodruff: YOU'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT THE STORAGE LOCATIONS THE
STOCK PILES OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS
>> I DON'T THINK THOSE WILL BE
ATTACKED.
RELEASE OF AGENTS INTO THE AIR
OR INTO THE GROUND OR WHATEVER
AND THAT WOULD LEAVE THE U.S.
OPEN TO YOU KNOW ACCUSATIONS
THAT WE'RE ACTUALLY CAUSING THE
CHEMICAL WARFARE PROBLEM IN
SYRIA.
PRETTY WIDE RANGE THAT THE U.S.
AND ANY ALLIES WOULD CHOOSE TO
HIT.
YOU'RE SAYING COMMAND AND
CONTROL TO WHAT -- WHAT SIZE
TARGETS ARE WE TALKING ABOUT?
>> I THINK WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
YOU KNOW A TARGET SET, RIGHT?
MADE UP OF VARIOUS TYPES OF
TARGETS RANGING FROM GROUND
FORCE UNITS, ARTILLERY U AND
SO ON TO COMMAND AND CONTROL
NODES, TO HEADQUARTERS OF UNITS
IN THE DAMASCUS AREA TO THE
MINISTRY OF DEFENSE TO THE
SYRIAN ARMY HEADQUARTERS.
IT'S UP TO THE ADMINISTRATION
AND ITS ALLIES TO DECIDE EXACTLY
WHAT TARGET SET THEY WANT TO
HIT.
BUT THEY'VE GOT A WIDE VARIETY
THEY'VE GOE MEANS TO DO IT.
SO IT'S A MATTER OF YOU KNOW AN
INTERNAL DECISION.
>>Woodruff: RICHARD HAASS YOU
TALKED ABOUT CONSULTING WITH
OTHERS.
WHAT ALLIES ARE YOU -- IS IT
YOUR UNDERSTANDING THE U.S.
WOULD DO THIS IN CONCERT WITH?
WOULD THERE NEED TO BE A UNITED
NATIONS INVOLVEMENT?
>> THERE WOULD NOT NEED TO BE A
UNITED NATIONS INVOLVEMENT JUDY.
QUIET HONESTLY WE COULDN'T GET
IT.
QUITE POSSIBLY THE RUSSIANS AND
COMOINS WOULD PREVENT IT.
IT'S NOT THE ONLY FORM OF
MULTILATERALISM.
WILLING TO GIVE THIS A DEGREE OF
INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT, AND
CONSIDERABLE LEGITIMATE MEAS.
CAN I SPEAK ONE OTHER POINT
HERE?
THERE'S GOING TO BE A CEILING
OFTEN IT.
WHAT THE UNITED STATES IS GOING
TO DO IS REACT TO CW, CHEMICAL
WEAPONS.
OF ANYTHING OPEN ENDED.
THIS IS GOING TO BE PUNITIVE AND
THERE'S GOING TO BE AN END TO
IT.
THE ADMINISTRATION WANTING TO
RESPOND WANTS EQUALLY TO AVOID
BECOMING A PROTAGONIST.
IN THIS CIVIL WAR I SYRIA.
TO THREAD THE NEEDLE, DOING
ENOUGHAKE THE MESSAGE ON
CHEMICALS BUT WITHOUT GETTING
FASHION AND WHAT COULD BE IN THE
END A VERY DIFFICULT
UNDERTAKING.
>>Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING IN
CHANGE THE BALANCE OF THE POWER
EQUATION RIGHT NOW IN SYRIA?
>> IF WE WANTED TO CHANGE THE
BALANCE OF POWER I WOULD ARGUE A
BETTER WAY TO DO IT RATHER THAN
USING U.S. MILITARY FORCES
DIRECTLY WOULD BE TO PROVIDE
SIGNIFICANTLY HELP TO THOSE
MEMBERS OF THE OPPOSITION WE
COULD WORK WITH, TO GIVE THEM
THE KIND O OF ANTIARMOR AND
ANTIAWARE FARE WEAPONS.
WHAT COULD BE A LONG TERM
QUAGMIRE IN WAYS THAT COULD BE
RECOMMEND NISHENCE IN
AFGHANISTAN AND IRAQ.
>>Woodruff: JEFFREY WHITE, WHAT
WOULD BE THE ON THE PART OF THE
SYRIANs.
>> THERE COSH, THOUGHT IS THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT WILL ROLL WITH
THE PUNCH.
>>Woodruff: WHY DO YOU THINK
THAT?
>> I DON'T THINK THEY WANT TO
COMMIT SUICIDE BY RETALIATION.
UTLE OR ITS ALLIES OR ITS
INTERESTS WOULD LEAD TO I THINK
EVEN GREATER STRIKES AGAINST THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT.
>>Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT IRAN,
WHAT ABOUT HEZBOLLAH WHICH IS-VD
BACKERS?
>> HEZBOLLAH THEY'RE NOT
INTERESTED IN GETTING INTO IT-W.
AND IRAN I THINK WILL BE VERY
CAUTIOUS IN KIND OF A
TRADITIONAL WAY.
THERE'S ALWAYS THESI COVERT ACT
AGAINST U.S. INTEREST, A
TERRORIST ATTACK OR SO ON.
AND HEZBOLLAH AND IRAN CAN
CERTAINLY MOUNT THOSE BUT I
DON'T THINK ANY GREAT LARGE
SCALE DIRECT RETALIATION AGAINST
ANYBODY.
>>Woodruff: RICHARD HAASS USE IS
MOMENTS AGO THE OFFICE OF HOUSE
SPIEKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID, IN
CONVERSATION WITH THE WHITE
HOUSE, NOT WITH THE PRESIDENT
BUT THE WHITE HOUSE, SAID THAT
ANY MILITARY ACTION HAS TO BE
PRECEDED BY CONSULTATION WITH
CONGRESS, CLEARLY TO FIND
OBJECTIVES, BROADER OBJECTIVES
FOR STABILITY.
WHAT DOES THIS STATEMENT
INTRODUCE, IS THIS GOING TO BE
AN ELEMENT OF CONSULTING WITH
CONGRESS?
>> THE CONSULTATIONS HAVE
ALREADY BEGUN.
I DON'T THINK THE ADMINISTRATION
WILL REQUIRE OR SLOW DOWN FOR
ANY FORMAL CONGRESSIONAL
AUTHORIZATION BUT IT WOULD BE
FOOLISH NOT TO CONSULT WITH
CONGRESS.
REINFORCE THE IDEA THAT THE
UNITED STATES DOES NEED TO
RESPOND TO CHEMICAL WEAPONS BUT
THERE NEEDS TO BE A CEILING ON
THAT RESPONSE.
THERE IS JUST AS MUCH CONCERN IN
DOING TOO MUCH AS IT IS IN DOING
TOO LITTLE IN CONGRESS.
I THOUGHT SENATOR REED IN YOUR
PREPARED PIECE GOT IT ABOUT
RIGHT.
UNDERSCORE THIS NORM, THIS TABOO
AGAINST CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
IT CAN'T GO WITHOUT REACTION BUT
THIS SHOULDN'T BE THE BEGINNING
IF YOU WILL OF AN OPEN ENDED
AMERICAN PARTICIPATION IN THESY.
I THINK THAT'S WHAT ANY
CONSULTATIONS WITH CONGRESS
WOULD REINFORCE.
>>Woodruff: RICHARD HAASS,
JEFFREY WHITE, WE THANK YOU
BOAT.
BOTH.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, THE MASSIVE WILDFIRE
OUTSIDE YOSEMITE; THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON, 50 YEARS ON; AND THE
MEDAL OF HONOR IS AWARDED TO ONE
OF OUR BRAVEST.
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
>> Holman: THE LEADERS OF TWO
FORMER MILITANT GROUPS IN EGYPT
ARE OFFERING A TRUCE TO END THE
VIOLENCE.
THE ISLAMIST ORGANIZATIONS
CALLED TODAY FOR SUPPORTERS OF
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI
TO HALT THEIR STREET PROTESTS IF
THE MILITARY-BACKED GOVERNMENT
ENDS ITS CRACKDOWN.
MEANWHILE, FORMER PRESIDENT
HOSNI MUBARAK APPEARED IN COURT
SUNDAY FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE
BEING RELEASED FROM PRISON LAST
WEEK.
HE'S BEING RETRIED FOR THE
DEATHS OF PROTESTERS DURING THE
2011 UPRISING THAT DROVE HIM
FROM POWER.
A SEPARATE TRIAL ALSO OPENED FOR
THREE MUSLIM BROTHERHOOD LEADERS
ACCUSED OF INCITING VIOLENCE.
THE UNITED NATIONS SAID TODAY IT
EXPECTS ALL MEMBER STATES TO
RESPECT THE PRIVACY OF
DIPLOMATIC COMMUNICATIONS.
THAT CAME AFTER THE GERMAN
MAGAZINE "DER SPIEGEL" REPORTED
THE U.S. NATIONAL SECURITY
AGENCY HACKED INTO INTERNAL
COMMUNICATIONS AT U.N.
HEADQUARTERS IN NEW YORK.
THE MAGAZINE CITED DOCUMENTS
OBTAINED FROM N.S.A. LEAKER
EDWARD SNOWDEN.
THEY CLAIMED THE N.S.A. ALSO
BUGGED THE EUROPEAN UNION'S
OFFICES IN WASHINGTON.
IN CHINA, DISGRACED POLITICAL
FIGURE BO XILAI NOW AWAITS THE
VERDICT IN HIS CORRUPTION TRIAL.
IN CLOSING ARGUMENTS TODAY, BO
DENOUNCED THE TWO MAIN WITNESSES
AGAINST HIM.
HE CHARGED HIS WIFE IS DERANGED
AND HIS FORMER POLICE CHIEF IS
DISHONEST.
PROSECUTORS ARGUED BO MADE
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS ILLEGALLY
AND INTERFERED IN A MURDER
INVESTIGATION.
HE WAS A RISING STAR IN THE
RULING COMMUNIST PARTY BEFORE
THE SCANDAL BROKE.
THE SCHOOL YEAR IS JUST GETTING
STARTED IN MOST OF THE U.S., AND
ALREADY THE WEATHER HAS
INTERVENED.
SEVERE HEAT IN THE MIDWEST TODAY
FORCED SCHOOLS IN AT LEAST SIX
STATES TO END CLASSES EARLY.
READINGS REACHED NEARLY 100
DEGREES IN MUCH OF THE REGION,
INCLUDING NEBRASKA, IOWA,
MINNESOTA, THE DAKOTAS AND
ILLINOIS.
MANY OF THE AFFECTED SCHOOLS
HAVE SECTIONS THAT ARE NOT AIR
CONDITIONED.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE LOST 64
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 14,946.
THE NASDAQ FELL A FRACTION OF A
POINT TO CLOSE AT 3657.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
>> Ifill: THOUSANDS OF
FIREFIGHTERS PUSHED TODAY TO
MAKE HEADWAY AGAINST ONE OF THE
LARGEST FIRES IN CALIFORNIA'S
HISTORY.
>>Brown: BY AIR, AND BY LAND,
AND ALL OUT TO SOUTH ON THE
ENORMOUS WIND FIRE IS RAGING IN
MOUNTAINS.RRA NEVADA
EFFORT.
>>Brown: THE FIRE HAS SCHOOLED
SOME 237 SQUARE MILES OF
CALIFORNIA FOREST SINCE I FLAMED
TO LIFE A WEEK AGO.
BURNING AT THE NORTHWESTERN EDGE
OF YOSEMITE NATIONAL PARK.
>> WE ARE FACING RECORD DRY FUEL
CONDITIONS ACROSS THIS STATE.
THAT HAS LED TO WELL ABOVE
AVERAGE THE NUMBER OF FIRES
SINCE THE BEGINNING OF MAY AND
WITH THIS FIRE AND OTHERS WE'RE
CERTAINLY IN STRETCHING THE
NUMBER OF ACRES IN RECORD THAT
WE HAVE BENDER.
>>Brown: SOME 3600 FIREFIGHTERS
MANAGED TODAY TO EXPAND
CONTINUED LINES TO 15% OF THE
FIRE.TO FACE THE CHALLENGES OF
RUGGED PA PARCHED TERRAIN.
>> KNOWING WHERE IT COULD GO IS
A LITTLE UNPREDICTABLE.
>>Brown: ANOTHER UNPREDICTABLE
PHARMACIST WHERE THE FIRE DO
REACH OUT TO AFFECT SAN
FRANCISCO, MORE THAN 200 MILES
AWAY.
ON FRIDAY GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN
DECLARED A STATE OF EMERGENCY,
TO PROTECT TRANSMISSION LINES.
ALSO AT RISK, THE HETCH-HETCHY
RESERVOIR.
SOURCE OF NEARLY ALL OF THE
CITY'S WATER.
OFFICIALS MAINTAIN WATER QUALITY
HAS NOT BEEN AFFECTED.
STILL GOVERNOR BROWN WARNED THE
EFFECTS MAY BE SEEN WHEN THE
WINTER RAINY SEASON COMES.
>> YOU'VE GOT A MOON SCAPE WHERE
THE FLOODS CAN CONTAMINATE THE
WATERS.
>>Brown: IN TERMS OF PROPERTY
DAMAGE THE FIRE HAS DESTROYED
RELATIVELY FEW BUILDINGS AND
SEVERAL SMALL TOWNS ARE UNDER
THREAT.
THE SYSTEM CAMP NEAR THE TOWN OF
BERKELEY, A 90-YEAR-OLD TOURIST
FACILITY BURNED TO THE GROUND.
>> THERE'S A LOT OF SUMMER CAMPS
A LOT OF FLAMMABLE, I WOULD
IMAGINE THEY HAD THEIR HANDS
FULL.
>>Brown: ELSEWHERE RESIDENTS
EVACUATION CENTERS.
>> IT'S SAD YOU KNOW, YOU NEVER
THINK YOU'RE GOING TO BE HERE IN
THE SITUATION.
AND WHEN YOU WATCH OTHER PEOPLE
ON TV THAT YOU CAN'T HELP THAT
ARE IN IT, THEN WHEN IT HITS
HOME, WOW.
>>Brown: AS FOR YOSEMITE, THE
MAJORITY OF THE PARK WITH ITS
MAJESTIC VISTAS AND WATERFALLS
REMAINS RELATIVELY UNAFFECTED.
WHILE SOME BACK HIKING HAS BEEN
CLOSED, IT REMAINS OPEN TO
VISITORS AND CAMPERS.
FIREFIGHTERS ARE TRYING TO
PROTECT TWO GROVES OF THE PARK'S
FAMOUS GIANT SEQUOIAS ESTIMATED
TO BE 200 YEARS OL.
OLD.
WE GET TWO UPDATES ON THE
SITUATION THIS EVENING FROM
OFFICIALS DEALING WITH THE FIRE.
FIRST, CAPTAIN MIKE MOHLER.
HE'S THE PUBLIC INFORMATION
OFFICER WITH THE CALIFORNIA
DEPARTMENT OF FORESTRY AND FIRE
PROTECTION, AND HAS BEEN IN THE
"RIM FIRE" AREA SINCE THURSDAY.
I TALKED TO HIM A SHORT TIME
CAPTAIN MOHLER, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
WE HEARD ABOUT SLIGHTLY MORE
ACQUAINTMENT TODAY.
WHAT'S YOUR ASSESSMENT OF THE
LATEST SITUATION?
>> WELL, YEAH WE'RE UP TO 15%
CONTAINED, ON THE RIM FIRE.
WHAT THAT MEANS TO US RIGHT NOW
IS YES, WE'VE INCREASED OUR
CONTAINMENT BUT THIS IS A
150,000 ACRE FIRE, WE'VE HAD
EXTREME WEATHER CONDITIONS.
WE STILL ARE HAVE A DIFFICULT
FIREFIGHT IN FRONT OF US.
>>Brown: WHAT ARE THE CONDITIONS
THAT THE FIREFIGHTERS ARE
EXPERIENCING AT THIS POINT?
>> WE ARE EXPERIENCING WIND
SHIFTS, THIS FIRE IS BUILDING UP
INTO A COLUMN WHICH CREATES
ERRATIC WINDS.
WE HAVE CRITICAL FUEL MOISTURE
AND STEEP ROCKY ROCKY TERRAIN
THAT MAKES I.T. DIFFICULT TO GE.
>>Brown: ARE YOU GOING TO
PREDICT AHEAD OF IT OR REAGHT AS
IT HAPPEN?
>> WE DO PREDICT THE WEATHER
THAT'S KEY IN FIGHTING THESE
FIRES BUT MOTHER NATURE WE HAVE
WE HAVE TO DO THIS ON A DAILYND
BASIS, WE HAVE TO BE DYNAMIC AND
READY FOR THEIRE FRONTS AND
WE DO PREDICT IT.
WE PLACE CONTAINMENT LINES WHAT
WE CALL TINS PLANNINGS AND
HOPEFULLY WE ARE READY WHEN THE
FIRE COMES.
>>Brown: WHAT RESOURCES DO WE
HAVE?
DO YOU HAVE ENOUGH IN TERMS OF
EQUIPMENT AND FIREFIGHTERS
THEMSELVES?
>> WE DO.
THIS FIRE IS NOT ONLY THE NUMBER
ONE FIRE IN THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA BUT IT IS ALSO THE
NUMBER ONE FIRE IN THE NATION.
SO RESOURCE ORDERS ARE COME TO
THE RIM FIRE.
WE HAVE ABOUT 4,000 GROUND
TROOPS AND SEVERAL AREA
RESOURCES NOT O HELICOPTERS
BUT ALSO FIXED WING AND WE'VE
ALSO ACTIVATED THE CALIFORNIA
NATIONAL GUARD THAT IS A BIG
RESOURCE FOR FIGHTING THESE
FIRES.
>>Brown: TELL US ABOUT
PROTECTING THE POWER AND WATER
SOURCES.
>> WELL WE'RE WORKING VERY
CLOSELY THE INCIDENT COMMAND
TEAM FROM THE U.S. FOREST
SERVICE IS WORK VERY CLOSELY
WITH THE CITY OF NO THE
CITY OF SAN DIEGO FIRE
DEPARTMENT BUT I CAN TELL YOU
THAT IS A VERY IMPORTANT
STRUCTURE AND INFRASTRUCTURE SO
FIREFIGHTERS AND CREWS ARE OUT
THERE PROTECTING THAT AREA.
>>Brown: THERE WERE REPORTS LATE
TODAY THAT THE FIRE IS GETTING
QUITE CLOSE TO THE RESERVOIR.
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
BUT IN ANTICIPATION OF THAT FIRE
AGAIN WE'VE PUT IN WHAT WE CALL
DOZER LINES HAND CREW LICENSE WE
HAVE ALSO SURROUNDED THAT WITH
ENGINE COMPANIES IN PREPARATION
FOR THAT FIREFIGHT.
WE'VE BEEN MONITORING SINCE THE
CONTINUE TO MONITOR IT FOR THE
CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO.
>>Brown: EVERYBODY HAS BEEN
HAPPENED IN ARIZONA.
DOES THAT CHANGE THE WAY YOU
FIGHT FIRES NOW?
>> WELL, YES, IN PRESCOTT
ARIZONA, WEIGHS HEAVY IN ALL THE
FIREFIGHTERS HERE.
SAFETY IS OUR PRIME CONCERN.
ESCAPE ROUTES, ALL OF THESE ARE
TRAINED PROFESSIONALS.
ABSOLUTELY, WE WILL THAT IS
GOING TO EXTENSIVE
INVESTIGATION.
TAKEN A MOMENT OF SILEN THE
RIM FIRE TO REMEMBER THOSE
FIREFIGHTERS.
MINDS AND WE HAVE TO MONITOR ON
A DAILY BASIS.
>>Brown: THE OTHER THING THAT'S
BEING WATCHED IS THE SEQUOIA
GROVES.
WHAT MEASURES ARE YOU TAKING?
>> THATIO PARK SERVICE HASVERY D
FIRE PREPARATION.
THEY'VE EVACUATED THOSE GROVES
AND THEY ALSO HAVE PROTECTION
ASURMEES NOT ONLY SPRINKLERS BUT
THEY'VE PREPPED AROUND THOSE
GROVES.
TREASURE BUT A WORLDWIDE
TREASURE.
COMMAND TEAM OF THE U.S. FOREST
AND THE FIFTHERS TO PROTECT
THOSE GROVES.
>>Brown: DO YOU KNOW ANYTHING
MORE ABOUT THE CAUSE OF THIS AT
THIS POINT?
>> I DO NOT KNOW T CAUSE.
RIGHT NOW IT IS UNDER
INVESTIGATION AN ONGOING
INVESTIGATION AS WE SPEAK.
>>Brown: FOR YOU IN TERMINATION
OF HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE THIS
IS PRETTY SERIOUS.
>> IT'S VERY SERIOUS.
THIS COMMUNITY THROUGHOUT THIS
AREA NOT ONLY YOSEMITE BUT ALL
THE COMMUNITIES INVOLVED THEY
ARE NOT FOREIGN TO WILDFIRE.
THIS AREA HAS A LOT OF FIRE
HISTORY.
THEY HAVE A LOT OF CLEARED
DEFENSIBPACE.
IN CALIFORNIA HISTORY, IT HAS
CONTINUED TO GROW.
WITH THE TROOPS WE HAVE WE HOPE
TO TURN ON THIS QUICKLY BUT IT
IS A DYNAMIC SITUATION.
>>Brown: CAPTAIN MOHLER, GOOD
LUCK TO ALL OF THOSE.
>>> MR. HARLAN KELLY, THANKS FOR
JOINING US.
I KNOW YOU WERE OUT NEAR THE
FIRE TODAY.
WHAT IS YOUR ASSESSMENT OF THE
SITUATION?
>> YES I WAS JUST OUT THERE
EARLIER TODAY.
WRITE WAS WAS AT MOCCASIN WHICH
IS A TOWN ABOUT 45 MILES AWAY
FROM THE FACE OF OUR
HETCH-HETCHY DAM.
I TELL YOU, I DEFINITELY WANT TO
GIVE THE WOMEN AND MEN OUT THERE
FIGHTING THE FIRES A LOT OF
RESPECT, AND WHATEVER SUPPORT WE
CAN DO FOR THOSE BRAVE MEN AND
WOMEN OUT THERE FIGHTING THE
FIRES.
ALSO, I WANTED TO REALLY FOCUS
ON OUR STAFF TO REALLY FOCUS ON
OUR INFRASTRUCTURE, AND REALLY
LOOK AT ASSESSING OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE, WHEN WE ARE ABLE
TO GET IN AND EXAMINE OUR WATER
LINES, AND ALSO, OUR POWER
LINES.-BIT ABOUT THAT.
WHAT KIND OF PROBLEMS ARE YOU
HAVING WITH THE POWER STATIONS
RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL, CURRENTLY THERE ARE TWO
POWER STATIONS THAT ARE NOT UP
AND RUNNING, WE HAVE ONE.
TYPICALLY WE PRODUCE ABOUT 160
MEGAWATTS OF POWER, TO MEET THE
MUNICIPAL LOAD IN SAN FRANCISCO.
AND CURRENTLY, WE HAVE ONE POWER
STATION WHICH IS PRODUCING ABOUT
50 MEGAWATTS.
SO FOR THE BALANCE WE ARE
WORKING WITH A BANK THAT WE HAVE
WITH ANOTHER UTILITY COMPANY,
PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC, WHERE
WHEN WE HAVE EXCESS POWER WE PUT
IT IN THE BANK.
WE'RE NOW WITHDRAWING THAT
AND THEN WE GO ONTO THE SPOT
MARKET AND PURCHASE POWER.-SO AY
UNTIL TODAY, WE SPENT ABOUT
$600,000 IN ADDITIONAL POWER
PURCHASES.
>>Brown: AND THE RESERVOIR, THE
ISSUE IS CONTAMINATION.
THAT BECAUSE THE FIRE IS GETTING
QUITE CLOSE TO THE RESERVOIR.
>> YEAH, SO I JUST WANTED TO WET
WE FEEL COMFORTABLE THAT WE'RE
BEING ABLE TO DELIVER CLEAN,
FRESH WATER, HIGH QUALITY WATER
LIKE WE ALWAYS HAVE DONE.
WHAT WE'RE CONCERNED ABOUT IS
THE FUTURE IMPACT OF THE WATER
FROM THE ASH THAT WILL FALL INTO
OUR RESERVOIRS.
SO WHAT WE'RE DOING IS LOOKING
AT CONTINGENCY PLANS.
AND SO CURRENTLY ONE OF THE
CONTINGENCY PLANS THAT WE ARE
CURRENTLY DOING IS WE ARE TAKING
MORE OF THE WATER OUT OF THE
RESERVOIR AND WE ARE PUTTING IT
INTO LOCAL STORAGE.
RIGHT NOW, THE TURBIDITY IS THE
SAME AS IT WAS BEFORE THE FIRE.
TURBIDITY IS A MEASURE OF
POLINESS SO WE FEEL MORE
CONFIDENT TO BRING THAT WATER
INTO OUR LOCAL RESERVOIRS.
IF THE TURBIDITY EXCEEDS THAT
THEN WE WILL START TREATING OUR
SYSTEM FROM THE HELP HETCHY SYSM
WHICH WE DON'T CURRENTLY DO.
>>Brown: HOW CONCERNING IS THAT
TO SAN FRANCISCO WHICH IS
HUNDREDS OF MILES AWAY?
>> WELL WE HAVE A LARGE WATER
SOURCE THAT IS 85% OF 2.6
MILLION CITIZENS THAT ENJOY OUR
HEHCHY WATER.
WE WANTED TO DO EVERYTHING WE
CAN IN OUR POWER TO PROTECT OUR
WATER SOURCE.
BUT THE BOTTOM LINE IS RIGHT NOW
WE ARE PROVIDING WATER SAFE
DRINK WATER TO ALL OUR CITIZENS
OF SAN FRANCISCO AND THE BAY
AREA.
>> HARLAN KELLY, THANKS SO MUCH
AND GOOD LUCK.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: WE TURN NOW TO OUR
COMMEMORATION OF THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON.
FIRST, A FEW WORDS FROM
CHARMAINE McKISSICK-MELTON OF
DURHAM, NORTH CAROLINA.
HER FATHER, THE LATE FLOYD
McKISSICK, THEN NATIONAL
CHAIRMAN OF THE CONGRESS OF
RACIAL EQUALITY, OR CORE, SPOKE
AT THE ORIGINAL EVENT.
>> AS ONE OF THE LEADERS WAS
TOLD THEY DID NOT WANT CHILDRENG
MIGHT HAPPEN.
WE TURNED ON THE TV.
WE WERE REALLY, REALLY
DISAPPOINTED THAT WE WEREN'T
THERE BECAUSE WE SAW LOTS OF
KIDS THERE.
MY FATHER WAS NOT SUPPOSED TO BE
A SER MARCH.
IT WAS SUPPOSED TO BE A CORE
PERSON AND OF COURSE THAT WOK
THE DIRECTOR, JAMES FARMER, WE
CALL HIM JIM FARMER.
JIM WAS ARRESTED AND IN
LOUISIANA SO THEREFORE MY FATHER
WAS CALLED ON AS SECOND IN
COMMAND OF CORE, TO SPEAK FOR
THE MARCH.
HE TENDED TO BE A LITTLE
FIERIER, NOT QUITE A GOE GOSPELT
QUITE A BAPTIST MINISTER BUT HE
STUCK TO SCRIPT IT SEEMED TO ME,
MORE THAN NORTHERLY.
TO CHARMAINE, IT IS MY FAITH IN
YOU AND OTHER YOUTH THAT I RELY
ON.
>> Woodruff: THAT WAS CHARMAINE
McKISSICK-MELTON FROM DURHAM,
NORTH CAROLINA.
YOU CAN FIND HER STORY, AND
OTHER FIRSTHAND ACCOUNTS
FOR THE WEB SERIES, "MEMORIES OF
THE MARCH," PRODUCED BY PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATIONS AROUND THE
COUNTRY, ON THE PBS WEB SITE,
"BLACK CULTURE CONNECTION."
>> Ifill: NOW TO OUR OWN
COVERAGE OF THE ANNIVERSARY.
THOUSANDS GATHERED SATURDAY TO
MARK THE OCCASION ON THE
NATIONAL MALL, THE SITE OF THE
ORIGINAL MARCH.
ELECTED OFFICIALS, ACTIVISTS AND
CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS ADDRESSED
THE CROWD, CALLING FOR A MORE
EXPANSIVE INTERPRETATION OF
>> AS WE GATHER TODAY, 50 YEARS.
LATER, THEIR MARCH IS NOW OUR
MARCH AND IT MUST GO ON.
AND OUR FOCUS HAS BROADENED TO
INCLUDE THE CAUSE OF WOMEN, OF
LATINOS, AASIAN-AMERICANS, OF
LESBIANS, OF GAYS, OF PEOPLE
WITH DISABILITIES, AND OF
COUNTLESS OTHERS ACROSS THIS
GREAT COUNTRY WHO STILL YEARN
FOR QUALITY, OPPORTUNITY AND
FAIR EMPLOYMENT.
>> I KEEP HEARING PEOPLE TALKING
ABOUT DR. KING'S DREAM.
WHEN I WAS YOUNGER, I SAID TO MY
MOTHER, MY FRIENDS SAY WHY ARE
WE DREAMING?
YOU NEED TO BE AWAKE TO FIGHT.
WELL, MY MOTHER SAID TO ME, YOU
GOT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT DREAMS
ARE FOR.
DREAMS ARE FOR THOSE THAT WON'T
ACCEPT REALITY.
AS IT IS.
SO THEY DREAM OF WHAT IS NOT
THERE.
AND MAKE IT POSSIBLE.
>> ALSO SPEAKING SATURDAY, THE
SLAIN CIVIL RIGHTS LEADER'S SON,
MARTIN LUTHER KING III.
>> I LIKE YOU CONTINUE TO FEEL
HIS PRESENCE.
I LIKE YOU CONTINUE TO HEAR HIS
VOICE CRYING OUT IN THE
WILDERNESS.
THE ADMONITION IS CLEAR.
THIS IS NOT TIME FOR A NOSTALGIC
COMMEMORATION NOR TIME FOR SELF
CONGRATULATORY CELEBRATION, THE
PASS IS NOT DONE, THE JOURNEY IS
NOT COMPLETE.
>> Ifill: THE PASSAGE OF 50
YEARS HAS ALTERED THE WAY WE
CONSIDER THE MARCH, ESPECIALLY
FOR THOSE WHO MARCHED AND THOSE
NOT YET BORN.
I SPOKE RECENTLY WITH CIVIL
RIGHTS LEADER CLEVELAND SELLERS,
WHO WAS THERE IN 1963 AND WAS
ACTIVE IN THE MOVEMENT, AND HIS
SON, SOUTH CAROLINA STATE
RELIEUTENANT GOVERNOR IN THEIR
>> CLEVELAND SELLERS, BOCARI
SELLERS, THANKS FOR JOINING US.
CLEVELAND SLERS, WHO DREW SO
MUCH IN YOUR CAREER AS A CIVIL
RIGHTS ACTIVIST, YOU WERE PART
OF FREEDOM SUMMER AND YOU
MARCHED ON WASHINGTON IN 1963.
SO MANY TURNING POINTS THAT
HAPPENED DURING THAT TIME.
WHAT ABOUT THE MARCH WAS
DIFFERENT FOR YOU?
>> WELL, THE MARCH OCCURRED IN
1963 AND AT THAT POINT I WAS AN
18-YEAR-OLD SOPHOMORE AT HOWARD
UNIVERSITY.
ALL OF THE ACTIVITIES OF YOUNG
PEOPLE ACROSS THE SOUTH,
PRIMARILY, IN THEIR EFFORTS TO D
THEN YOU HAD THE STUDENTS IN
BIRMINGHAM WHO FACED THE WATER
HOSES AND THE DOGS.
AND LATER THAT SUMMER, '63, YOU
HAD THE MURDER OF MEDGAR EVERS
AND WE BEGAN TO FEEL YOUNG
PEOPLE LIKE WE WERE BEGINNITO-MT
IS, THAT WE WERE EXPERIENCING A
UNIQUE TIMEN I OUR LIVES WHERE
WE WANTED TO SAY THAT WE WANTED
OUR FREEDOM AND WANDTE IT NOW.
AND SO WE HAD AN OPPORTUNITY TO
BE INVOLVED IN THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON.
VOLUNTEER THERE IN WASHINGTON,
D.C.
SPENT A LOT OF TIME MAKING
POSTERS AND MAKE SANDWICHES,
CHEESE SANDWICHES.
I THINK SOME 70,000 POSTERS AND
HOW MANY CHEESE SANDWICHES WE
ACTUALLY MADE.
BUT I WAS THERE THE NEXT MORNING
AND IT WAS A THRILL TO SEE ALL
THESE BUSES AND CROWDS AND
MASSES OF PEOPLE COMING TO
WASHINGTON WITH DIFFERENT
OBJECTIVES IN MIND.
>>Ifill: BOCARI SELLERS, YOU
WERE BARELY A GLEAN IN YROU
PARENTS' ION.
HOW DID YOU FIRST LEARN ABOUT
THE MARCH?
>> MY UPBRINGING WAS A LITTLE
BIT DIFFERENT THAN MOST, I
DIDN'T NEXT HAVE TO GO AND OPEN
UP A LIBRARY BOOK, I DIDN'T HAVE
TO WAIT FOR MY THIRD AND FOURTH
GRADE TEACHERS TO EDUCATE ME ON
BROWN VERSUS BOARD OF EDUCATION.
TO ME, GROWING UP, THE SON OF
CLEVELAND SELLERS AND GWENDOLYN
SELLERS, I REALLY KNEW THEY
UNDERSTOOD THE PRISON FLOORS AND
THE UNDERGROUND SELLERS.
FOR THEM IT WAS REAL LIFE,
GROWING UP AND HEARING ARE ABOUT
THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON.
I THINK THE MOST UNIQUE THINGS
THAT STAND OUT ABOUT THIS
JOURNEY WAS THAT IT WAS SPARKED
BY YOUNG PEOPLE.
AND THERE WERE YOUNG PEOPLE THAT
WERE 14, 15, 16 YEARS OLD, 21,
22, 23 YEARS OLD.
AND YOU KNOW I GOT THIS LITTLE
BASIC UNDERSTANDING THAT IF NOT
ME, THEN WHO AND IF NOT NOW,
THEN WHEN?
AND WITHOUT THOSE YOUNG PEOPLE,
WITHOUT THOSE YOUNG VISIONS,
THOSE YOUNG HEARTS, THOSE YOUNG
PEOPLE WHO WERE FILLED WITH
COURAGE, SOME OFTENTIMES RADICAL
SENSE OF INVINCIBILITY I
WOULDN'T HAVE THE OPPORTUNITIES
I HAD TODAY.
SO TO ME THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON
WAS A MOMENT IN TIME AND A
MOMENT IN HISTORY THAT WE LOOK
BACK ON AND WE LEARN FROM.
>>Ifill: YOU DECIDED IT WAS
IMPORTANT THAT YOUR CHILDREN
TAKE THIS IN NOT JUST FROM THE
HISTORY BOOKS BUT IN REALITY.
>> YES, I FELT IT WAS IMPORTANT
FOR US TO TRANSFER MANY OF THOSE
EXPERIENCES, AND THAT KNO GENER.
AND I JUST HAD THE OPPORTUNITY
TO CARRY MY CHILDREN AROUND WITH
ME AS I WAS ENGAGED IN OTHER
KINDS OF CIVIL RIGHTS ORIENTED
ACTIVITIES.
MANY OF THE LEGENDS OF THE CIVIL
RIGHTS ERA.
YOU KNOW, THE ANDY YOUNGS AND
THE STOKLEY CARR MULOCKS AND THE
LRS GOES -- CARRMICHAELS, I FELT
FOR MYSELF THEY SHOULD
UNDERSTAND THAT HISTORY AND
UNDERSTAND THAT STRUGGLE.
>>Ifill: WHY DID YOU, AFTER
UNDERSTANDING YOUR FATHER AND
MOTHER'S HISTORY, DECIDE THE
ELECTED PATH?
>> MY PARENTS TAUGHT US THAT
EDUCATION WAS THE LINE TO THE
INSATIABLE DREAM.
MY FATHER DRILLING OUR HEADS,
MAKE SURE YOU'RE A CHANGE AGENT,
WHATEVER FIELD YOU'RE GOING
INTO, WHETHER FIELD OF MEDICINE
LIKE MY SISTER OR MY BROTHER OR
ME.
CARVER, BUT IT'S NOT ABOUT
POLITICS IT'S ABOUT PUBLIC
SERVICE.
AND I HAD THE AUDACITY TO RUN
FOR PUBLIC OFFICE WHEN I WAS 20
YEARS OLD, ANNOUNCED I WAS GOING
TO RUN WHEN I WAS 20, 21 YEARS
OLD AND WIN.
AND NOW I'M RUNNING FOR
LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR ALL BECAUSE
MY FATHER AND OTHERS LIKE HIM
HAVE GIVEN SO MUCH TO THE STATE
OF SOUTH CAROLINA, I REALLY FEEL
IT'S MY RESPONSIBILITY TO GIVE
AS MUCH AS I HAVE TO MAKE SURE
THAT PEOPLE HAVE ACCESS, AND
THEY FOUGHT FOR ACCESS DURING
THE MARCH ON WASHINGTON.
AND ALTHOUGH OUR GOALS HAVE
CHANGED I STILL BELIEVE MY
MISSION TO BE TRUE.
>>Ifill: CLEVELAND SELLERS, WHEN
WE LOOK BACK YEARS LATER, DO YOU
FEEL THE GOALS OF THE MARCH WERE
ACCOMPLISHED?
HALF WEEKS AFTER THE MARCH AND
THAT WAS THE BOMBING OF THE
16th STREET BAPTIST CHURCH IN
BIRMINGHAM WHEN REALITY SET IN,
THAT FREEDOM WAS NOT TO BE JUST
GIVEN TO YOU AND THAT THAT
STRUGGLE WAS TO BE A LIFELONG
STRUGGLE FOR MANY OF US WHO WERE
VERY YOUNG AT THAT PARTICULAR
HAVE SEEN THAT THERE WERE
ACHIEVEMENTS BEYOND THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON.
I THINK THE MARCH ACT AUALLY
MOBILIZED PEEBL AND GAVE YOU THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TALK ABOUT
SPECIFIC ISSUES.
BUT YOU HAVE TO DO THE GRUNT
WORK IN ORDER TO ORGANIZE IT AND
YOU BEGIN TO SEE YOUNG PEOPLE GO
ACROSS THE SOUTH AND BECOME
ORGANIZED.
YOU SAW SELMA IN THE 1965 VOTING
RIGHTS ACT.
YOU SAW THE MISSISSIPPI SUMMER
PROJECT IN THE 1964 CIVIL RIGHTS
BILL.
YOU SAW AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, YOU
SAW ALL OF THESE THINGS GROW OUT
OF THAT.
YOU SAW AN EFFORT TO EMPOWER
MARGINALIZE EED PEOPLE ACROSS TE
COUNTRY.
WE USED THE MODEL WE WERE USING
IN TERMS OF ORGANIZING AND
SEX-DETERMINATION PULLING PEOPLE
TOGETHER SO THEY COULD TAKE
CONTROL OF THEIR OWN LIVES.
THOSE MODELS WERE ACTUALLY BOTH
THINGS THAT GREW OUT OF THE
MOVEMENT.
WASHINGTON IS ONE OF THOSE EPIC
POINTS THAT THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF OTHER EPIC POINTS THAT
ACTUALLY PULLED THIS WHOLE
PROCESS TOGETHER.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT TO
UNDERSTAND THAT EVEN ON THE
STRUGGLES ON THE MARCH ON
WASHINGTON, GET THE MESSAGE OUT.
>>Ifill: WE ARE STILL HAVING BIG
NATIONAL CONVERSATIONS AS THEY
SAY ABOUT RACE, STILL COMING OUT
OF THE TRAYVON MARTIN EPISODE.
AND I WONDER AS YOU LOOK BACK WE
WONDER WHETHER IT'S LEADERSHIP
THAT'S MISSING, WHETHER WE'RE
JUST NOT HONEST AS A PEOPLE IN
DISCUSSING THESE ISSUES OR
WHETHER WE'VE COME MUCH FURTHER
THAN THEY GIVE US CREDIT FOR?
>> I THINK WE HAVE COME A LONG
WAYS.
IS YOU HAVE TO HAVE COMMITTED
PEOPLE WHO ARE CONSTANTLY BEING
VIJ LANT AND MAKE -- VIGILANT
AND MAKE SURE THAT THINGS THAT
HAPPEN DO NOT HAP TO UNDUE
THE PROGRESS THAT HAS BEEN MADE.
I LOOK BACK AT THE ROLL-BACK OF
AFFIRMATIVE ACTION, I LOOK AT
THE ATTACK ON THE VOTING RIGHTS
ACT JUST RECENTLY.
I LOOK AT THE UNEMPLOYMENT AND
THOSE KINDS OF ISSUES, IT'S
IRONIC THAT IN 2013, LOOKING
BACK 50 YEARS, THAT THE MESSAGE,
MARCH ON WASHINGTON FOR JOBS AND
FREEDOM ARE APPLICABLE EVEN
TODAY.
QUESTION TO YOU, WHAT IS YOUR
SENSE OF W HAS AND HAS NOT
COME IN THE 50 YEARS SENSE?
>> FOR ME WE BROUGHT UP THE
TRAYVON MARTIN CASE AND ONE
THING I'VE LEARNED TO DO IS TAKE
A LOOK AT THINGS FROM A 50,000
FOOT VIEW, FOR ME IT'S MUCH
LARGER THAN THAT.
WE HAVE A GENERATION OF AFRICAN
AMERICAN YOUNG MEN WHO ARE
GROWING UP HOPELESS, FULL OF
DESPAIR AND WE HAVE FIGURE OUT
WHY THAT IS.
YOU KNOW ON A LARGER SCALE, MY
FATHER RECENTLY TALKED ABOUT THE
VOTING RIGHTS ACT AND VOTER I.D.
AND SOME OF THE ATTACKS THAT
HAVE BEEN MATE OVER THE VOTING
RIGHTS ACT.
YOU CAN'T HELP BUT AGREE THAT WE
ARE ON THE VERGE OF CHAOS IN
THIS COUNTRY.
BUT MY CHALLENGE IS TO STILL
BUILD COMMUNITY AND I THINK
WE'VE MADE PROGRESS.
I UNDERSTAND WE HAVE A WAY TO
GO.
PEOPLE IN MY GENERATION TO
UNDERSTAND THE NUANCES.
FOR ME IT'S NO LONGER BLACK AND
WHITE.
THE ISSUE OF MY FATHER'S
GENERATION IS VERY MUCH STILL IN
PRESENCE TODAY, BUT TO CREATE A
SOCIOECONOMIC LEVEL, EVERYONE IN
THE UNITED STATES HAS ACCESS AND
ABILITY TO ATTAIN THE AMERICAN
DREAM.
>>Ifill: EACH BREAKING THROUGH
IN HIS OWN WAY, BOCARI SELLERS,
CLEVELAND SELLERS.
>> Ifill: THE PASSAGE OF 50
THANKS.AS ALTERED THE WAY WE
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
AND WATCH SPEECHES ON SATURDAY
ON OUR YOUTUBE PAGE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
PRESENTED ARMY STAFF SERGEANT TY
MICHAEL CARTER WITH THE NATION'S
HIGHEST MILITARY AWARD, THE
MEDAL OF HONOR.
HE SAID CARTER "DISPLAYED THE
ESSENCE OF TRUE HEROISM" FOR HIS
ACTIONS IN THE BATTLE AT COMBAT
OUTPOST KEATING IN AFGHANISTAN
ON OCTOBER 3, 2009.
HERE ARE EXCERPTS FROM TODAY'S
>> THIS IS AN HISTORIC DAY.
THE FIRST TIME IN NEARLY HALF A
ARE CENTURY SINCE THE VIETNAM
WAR THAT WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO
PRESENT THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO
TWO SURVIVORS OF THE SAME
BATTLE.
INDEED WHEN WE PAID TRIBUTE TO
CLIM ROMASHAY EARLIER THIS YEAR
WE RECALLED HOW HIS COMPANY
ALLOWED THE COVER, OF TWO
PERSONS TO MAKE THEIR ESCAPE.
THE MEDAL THAT WE PRESENT TODAY
THE SOLDIER THAT WE HONOR, TY
CARTER IS THE STORY OF WHAT
HAPPENED IN THAT HUMVEE.
AS DAWN BROKE THAT OCTOBER
MORNING WITH TY AND MOST OF THE
TROOPS STILL IN THEIR BUNKS THE
WORST FEARS BECAME A REALITY.
53 AMERICAN SOLDIERS WERE
SUDDENLY SURROUNDED BY MORE THAN
300 TALIBAN FIGHTERS.
THE OUTPOST WAS BEING SLAMMED
FROM EVERY DIRECTION.
MACHINE GUN FIRE, ROCKET
PROPELLED GRENADES, SNIPER FIRE.
IT WAS CHAOS.
THE BLIZZARD OF BULLETS AND
STEEL INTO WHICH TY RAN NOT ONCE
OR TWICE OR EVEN FEW TIMES BUT
PERHAPS TEN TIMES.
THE FIRE FORCED THEM INSIDE AND
SO IT WAS THAT FIVE AMERICAN
SOLDIERS INCLUDING TY AND
SPECIALIST STEPHAN MACE FOUND
THEMSELVES TRAPPED IN THAT
HUMVEE, THE TIRES FLAT, RPG
POURING IN, THREATENING TO BREAK
THROUGH THE ARMOR OF THEIR
VEHICLE AND WORST OF ALL,
TALIBAN FIGHTERS WERE
PENETRATING THE CAMP.
THE POSSIBILITIES WERE
UNBELIEVABLE.
ON THE GROUND WOUNDED ABOUT A
FEW YARDS AWAY.
IF YOU ARE LEFT WITH ONE IMAGE,
LET IT BE THIS.
TY CARTER, BENDING OVER, PICKING
UP STEFAN MACE, CRADLING HIM AND
GETTING HIM BACK TO THAT HUMVEE.
THE BATTLE WAS NOT OVER.
HE HELPED RALLY HIS TROOPS AS
THEY FOUGHT YARD BY YARD.
THEY PUSHED THE ENEMY BACK, OUR
SOLDIERS RE-TOOK THEIR CAMP.
NOW, TY SAYS THIS AWARD IS NOT
MINE ALONE.
THE BATTLE THAT DAY, HE WILL
SAY, WAS ONE TEAM AND ONE COULD.
SOME OF THESE MEN ARE WITH US
AGAIN.
AS WE HONOR TY' THE
BATTLE FIELD, I WANT TO
RECOGN HIS COURAGE IN THE
OTHER BATTLE HE HAS FOUGHT.
TY HAS SPOKEN OPENLY, WITH
HONESTY AND EXTRAORDINARY
ELOQUENCE, ABOUT HIS STRUGGLE
WITH POSTTRAUMATIC STRESS.
THE FLASH BACKS, THE NIGHT
MARRIES, THE ANXIETY, THE
HEARTACHE THAT MAKES IT
SOMETIMES ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE TO
GET THROUGH A DAY.
SO LET ME SAY AS CLEARLY AS I
CAN TO ANY OF OUR TROOPS OR
VETERANS WHO ARE WATCHING AND
STRUGGLING.
LOOK AT THIS SOLDIER.
LOOK AT THIS WARRIER, HE'S AS
TOUGH AS THEY COME AND IF HE CAN
FIND THE COURAGE AND STRENGTH TO
NOT ONLY SPEAK OUT ABOUT IT AND
STAY STRONG THEN SO CAN YOU.
SO CAN YOU.
AS WE PREPARE FOR THE READING OF
THE CITATION I WILL ASK YOU TY
TO NEVER FORGET THE DIFFERENCE
YOU'VE MADE ON THAT DAY.
BECAUSE YOU HELPED TURN BACK
THAT ATTACK, SOLDIERS ARE ALIVE
TODAY, LIKE YOUR BATTLE BUDDY IN
THAT HUMVEE, BRADSON, I OWE TY
MY LIFE, BECAUSE YOU URGED --
YOU HAD THE URGE TO SERVE OTHERS
AT WHATEVER COST, SO MANY ARMY
FAMILIES COULD WELCOME HOME
THEIR OWN S
ON YOU.
TY CARTER AND THE SOLDIERS OF
BLACK KNIGHT TROOP, GOD BLESS
ALL OUR MEN AND WOMEN IN
UNIFORM.
GOD BLESS THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENT ALSO
RECOGNIZED THE OTHER SOLDIERS OF
COMBAT OUTPOST KEATING,
REMEMBERING THE FALLEN FROM THAT
BATTLE AND HONORING THEIR
FAMILIES.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
DECLARED THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
DID USE POISON GAS ON ITS
CITIZENS.
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY VOWED
THE U.S. WILL HOLD THE ASSAD
REGIME ACCOUNTABLE, BUT AIDES
SAID THERE'S BEEN NO DECISION ON
MILITARY ACTION.
AND THOUSANDS OF FIREFIGHTERS
LABORED TO EXTEND CONTAINMENT
LINES AROUND A HUGE WILDFIRE ON
THE EDGE OF YOSEMITE NATIONAL
PARK IN CALIFORNIA.
THE BIG BLAZE THREATENED THE
WATER AND POWER SUPPLIES FOR SAN
FRANCISCO.
>> Woodruff: AN EDITOR'S NOTE
BEFORE WE GO.
ON FRIDAY, IN OUR HONOR ROLL OF
AMERICAN SERVICE PERSONNEL
KILLED IN THE AFGHANISTAN
CONFLICT, WE INCORRECTLY
IDENTIFIED THE HOMETOWN OF ARMY
STAFF SERGEANT OCTAVIO HERRARA.
HE IS FROM CALDWELL, IDAHO, NOT
IOWA.
WE ARE SORRY FOR THE ERROR.
AND FINALLY, WE REMEMBER TWO
WOMEN WHO DIED OVER THE WEEKEND,
ONE A PIONEER ON WALL STREET,
THE OTHER AN ACCLAIMED ACTRESS
OF HER GENERATION.
MURIEL SIEBERT WAS THE FIRST--
AND FOR A GENERATION, THE ONLY--
WOMAN WHO HAD A SEAT ON THE NEW
YORK STOCK EXCHANGE.
SHE FOUNDED HER OWN DISCOUNT
BROKERAGE FIRM ON WALL STREET
AND ADVOCATED ON BEHALF OF
FINANCIAL LITERACY FOR
AMERICANS.
IN 1977, SHE BECAME THE FIRST
WOMAN TO SERVE AS NEW YORK
STATE'S TOP BANKING REGULATOR.
SHE FIRST BECAME KNOWN FOR
BREAKING THROUGH A
>> GROWING UP, AND VISITING NEW
YORK AND I VISITED THE STOCK
EXCHANGE.
WE WERE ON THE BALCONY LOOKING
AT THE FLOOR.
I SAID YOU KNOW THIS LOOKS
EXCITING.
GET A JOB ON WALL STREET.
AND I CAME WITH $500.
AND I WAS AN ANALYST ON A
SALARY, BUT AT THE SAME TIME, AS
INSTITUTIONS WERE GIVING ME
ORDERS, AND I HAD A FOLLOWING.
BUT I GOT ABOUT 60% OF WHAT THE
MEN GOT.
I ASKED ONE OF MY CLIENTS WHAT
LARGE FIRM COULD I GO TO WHERE
I'LL BE PAID EQUALLY?
AND HE SAID, DON'T BE
RIDICULOUS.
YOU WON'T.
BY A SEAT -- BUY A SEAT.
WORK FOR YOURSELF.
MY APPLICATION TURNED THE STREET
UPDATEUPSIDE DOWN.
THEY SAID WE HAVE NEVER HAD A
WOMAN APPLY.
YOU NEVER DARE APPLY.
THAT WAS CREATING SOMETHING
SOMEONE HAD NEVER DONE BEFORE.
>> Ifill: MURIEL SIEBERT WAS 80
YEARS OLD.
JULIE HARRIS WAS AN ACCOMPLISHED
ACTRESS OF SCREEN AND THE STAGE.
SHE HAD DOZENS OF CREDITS OVER
HER CAREER, ACHIEVING SOME OF
HER GREATEST ACCLAIM FOR HER
THEATER WORK.
SHE PLAYED A WIDE VARIETY OF
ROLES AND WON SIX TONY AWARDS,
INCLUDING FOR HER ONE-WOMAN SHOW
ABOUT EMILY DICKINSON, "THE
BELLE OF AMHERST."
SHE APPEARED FREQUENTLY ON
TELEVISION AS WELL, INCLUDING
NIGHTTIME DRAMAS LIKE "THE BIG
VALLEY" AND "KNOTS LANDING."
HARRIS WAS IN A NUMBER OF FILMS
AS WELL, INCLUDING "EAST OF
EDEN."
HERE'S A MOMENT FROM THAT MOVIE,
AS SHE FALLS FOR THE TORMENTED
YOUNGER BROTHER, PLAYED BY JAMES
>> WHAT ARE GIRLS LIKE THAT
LIKE?
I MEAN, YOU DON'T REALLY LOVE
THEM, DO YOU?
AND WHY DO YOU GOOD OUT WITH
THEM, IS IT BECAUSE YOU'RE BAD?
YOU'RE NOT ANGRY, ARE YOU?
WELL, WHY DO YOU, THEN?
>> YOU THINK I'M BAD?
>> I DON'T KNOW.
I JUST DON'T KNOW WHAT IS GOOD
AND WHAT'S BAD.
YOU'RE SO GOOD AND I'M NOT.
GOOD ENOUGH FOR ANN ANYWAY,
SOMETIMES WHEN I'M WITH ADAM, HE
LIKES TO TALK ABOUT OUR BEING IN
LOVE AND THINK ABOUT IT, THAT'S
ALL RIGHT, BUT THESE GIRLS YOU
GO OUT WITH, MAYBE I DON'T KNOW
WHAT LOVE IS EXACTLY.
I KNOW LOVE IS GOOD, THE WAY
AARON SAYS BUT IT'S MORE THAN
THAT, IT'S GOT TO BE.
>> Ifill: JULIE HARRIS WAS 87
YEARS OLD.
>> Woodruff: ONLINE, A CLOSER
LOOK AT THE TV DRAMA WHERE
CHEMISTRY IS KING.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Holman: ON "BREAKING BAD,"
WALTER WHITE MAY BE THE SCIENCE
SMARTY BEHIND A DRUG EMPIRE, BUT
WHO ARE THE REAL EXPERTS WHO
HELP THE SHOW GET IT RIGHT? ON
LUNCH IN THE LAB, WE LOOK AT THE
SCIENTIFIC FACTS AND FICTIONS.
IT'S A BIRD, IT'S A PLANE-- IT'S
SUPERMAN THROUGH THE AGES.
WE HAVE A SLIDESHOW OF THE
EVOLUTION OF THE MAN OF STEEL.
PLUS, HOW A MERRY-GO-ROUND RIDE
PLAYED A ROLE IN AMERICA'S CIVIL
RIGHTS HISTORY.
THAT'S PART OF OUR MARCH ON
WASHINGTON COVERAGE ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
GWEN?
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.